# Client-Server-Development
CS 340 Client/Server Development


- How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

The way to write programs that are maintanable, readable, and adaptable is through the consideration of not only the customer but the tool-set you are using to accomplish the goal at hand. I think that these two considerations give you enough information to start laying the foundation, and groundwork needed to succeed, in addition to understanding the type of documentation you will need for the customer to not only understand your software, but for future developers to continue building upon it. I think that in Project One, a direct example of this was the use of the Python module that helped set up a basic infastructure that allowed us to connect with the database and manipulate the data, this set us up for success to use this data and take the next step towards a virtualized representation. I think that the sky is the limit when it comes to how much we are able to do with this Python Module, one thing that comes to mind is the utilization of AI clusters using Jupyter Notebooks, we can use this data to understand hidden, and underlying patterns within the dataset, and output these answers as well alongside the normal state of data that we get in our deliverable.

- How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

I think that the best approach to a problem that one could have as a Computer Scientest is the understanding of the challenge at hand. Being able to take the time to fully understand a problem, and segment the issue into smaller steps is one of the most important skills to have. Every year that I have been completing projects and classes while pursuing my degree, I have been able to slowly get better at this, and understand the exact gameplan that I need to commit to in order to fully understand and overcome the challenge presented to me. I think that in this case, one of my biggest challenges was understanding how to utilize the database, as the syntax was specific, in addition to understanding the authentication and running of the database and its connectivity with the Python module. I was able to overcome these challenges with youtube videos, and following step by step what other people have done in the past, and how they conceptualize the commands when running them in the environment, and understanding how these variables interact with all parts of the application.

- What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

I think that there are many different aspects of Computer Science that offer a wide array of benefits and valuable information that could help companies with projects like this. Firstly, understanding your audience, and presenting them value in a communicative way has become one of the most important parts of a companies mission. This allows a relationship between the company, and the customer to become more efficient, and grow overtime as both parties learn more about one another, and become more established within a day to day lifestyle. This is all thanks to Computer Science, and can especially be implemented through the understanding of this data, and how to display this in an easily accesible application.


